---
title:  "DE630 - Trends in Interactive Technologies (Autumn 2023)"
excerpt: Course - Design + AI

header:
    teaser: /assets/img/updates/icon_media-tech.jpg
categories: course
tags: Design Technology AI IxD

layout: single
permalink: /de630-course-2023
---
<br>
<span style="padding: 0px 0px 4px 0px;"> <small>Autumn 2023</small> </span>
<br>
Course Instructor: Jayesh Pillai
<br><br>

## DESIGN + AI
The primary objective was to understand the implications of AI in the context of Design; primarily Interaction Design. 
The course explored the evolution of AI in general and how one can imagine it connecting with the domain of design. Open discussions were conducted on topics ranging from the relevance of AI in design to the ethical concerns of the use of AI in design. Various AI tools connected to design were explored during the course to understand their current capabilities and limitations better.

### Course srtucture
AI and its Relevance in Design <small>
<br>&emsp;    • Overview of AI and its applications in various domains	
<br>&emsp;    • Role of AI in Design	
<br>&emsp;    • Talk: Nidhin Joseph [Ideating using AI]</small>
<br>AI in the Creative Process 	<small>
<br>&emsp;    • AI powered ideation and case studies
<br>&emsp;    • Talk: Harshit Agrawal [AI and Art]</small>
<br>AI in Arts and Content Creation<small>
<br>&emsp;    • Understanding AI-generated art and visual content
<br>&emsp;    • Talk: Rayaan Sheik [Animation Design and AI]</small>
<br>AI in User Experience and Interaction Design<small>
<br>&emsp;    • AI driven UI design and UX recommendations
<br>&emsp;    • Talk: Akshay Kore [Designing Human-Centric AI Experiences]	</small>
<br>The Future of AI in Design and Designers' Role <small>
<br>&emsp;    • The evolving role of designers
<br>&emsp;    • Ethical concerns and challenges 	
<br>&emsp;    • Reflection and feedback	</small>

<br>
<hr>
<br>

## PART-1
# REFLECTIONS

Here we present ...

<hr style="height:1px;border-width:0;background-color:lightgrey">

## Title for Hayat's Reflections

<span style="padding: 0px 0px 4px 0px; background-color: #eeeeee; color: #444444; border-radius: 7px;"> <small>&nbsp;&nbsp;Hayat Tamboli&nbsp;&nbsp;</small> </span>

<i>"Currently AI is a powerful tool, if used correctly we can increase our productivity and make it do all the laborious work.I understand that different people see different things as laborious work which is perfectly fine.	

AI is getting integrated in almost all of our workflows as getting in the digital workflows is easily accesible, and its making them optimized and efficient. In future, a time might come when AI does all the work for you, and you just got to have a vision of what you want. 	

Is AI work reliable? May be not today, but hopefully in future. 
Who to give credit if the work is partly done by AI, tool(AI) operator, AI, or the people whose data was used to train the AI?"</i>

<hr style="height:1px;border-width:0;background-color:lightgrey">

## ttile for Yashwant's Reflections

<span style="padding: 0px 0px 4px 0px; background-color: #eeeeee; color: #444444; border-radius: 7px;"> <small>&nbsp;&nbsp;Yashwant Rawat&nbsp;&nbsp;</small> </span>

<i>"??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? 

??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? ??????? "</i>

<hr style="height:1px;border-width:0;background-color:lightgrey">



<br>
<hr>
